Definitions:
Chemiosmosis: The movement of ions across a semi-permeable membrane via ATP-Synthase

The Electron Transport Chain
The ETC is a series of electron carriers and protein complexes bembedded in the inner mitochondrial matrix membrane that accept and donate electrons in a sequential series resulting in oxidative phosphorylation (O.P).
Oxidative Phosphorilation is a process that couples the oxidation of NADH and FADH2 by the ETC with the synthesis of ATP from ADP + Phosphate.

Key points:
Protons released during the previous steps are taken to the ETC by coenzymes NADH & FADH2.
In their reduced form, NADH & FADH2 carry a pair of electrons.
ETC is a series of integral proteins embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Electrons move from protein to protein using their energy to pump Hydrogen ions from the matrix to the lumen.
The pumping causes a huge concentration difference of protons
This is referred to as a chemiosmotic gradient
The increased concentration of any element will flow from high to low concentration (Diffusion laws)
The protons are allowed to diffuse back from the lumen to the matrix but only through the integral protein (ATP synthase)
For every proton that goes through the ATP synthase, 1 ATP is created
At the end of the ETC, the energy drained (Electrons spent) combine with oxygen molecules and protons in the matrix to create water, helping keep the pH neutral in the matrix.
Oxygen is the final electron acceptor.

NADH dehydrogenase, B-C Complex & Cytochrome C Oxidase must be right next to each other.
They are preceeded by a Glycerol Phosphate Shuttle & an ATP Synthase.
They're bunched up like a group together and there is only ever full groups.
This is chemi-osmosis because there's always a diffusion of excess hydrogen from the mitochondria.
This allows the hydrogen to come in & out of the matrix as it will -- sort of like a waterfall that leads to a river that flows back in on itself.

Integral proteins:
NADH Dehydrogenase:
-Dehydrogenates NADH, resulting in 2 electrons being released & an NAD+

Ubiquinone shuttles electrons between NADH dehydrogenase & b-c complex.
The B-C Complex uses electrons to move hydrogen out of the matrix & into the inter-layer.
Then, the electrons are shuttled through cytochrome-c to cytochrome c oxidase, which is used to bond oxygen with hydrogen, creating water.
The resulting hydrogen enters ATP synthase & is used to synthesize ADP & Phosphate into ATP.

Glycerol Phosphate Shuttle
NADH from glycolysis enter the Glycerol Phosphate Shuttle and become functionally FADH2 -- they can only produce 2 ATP each like FADH2, even if they're actually NADH.
It's due to the energy from the electrons being used from glycolysis all the way through entering the Glycerol Phosphate Shuttle.
