Photosynthesis big picture:
Carried out by plants, algae, protists, cynobacteria
(Carried out by anything with a chloroplast/chlorophyll)
Electrons in a porphyrin ring of chlorophyll absorb light energy.
The overall process is broken down into 3 distinct phases:
1: Capturing light energy (The light reaction)
2: Creating NADPH and ATP
3: Using 'energy' to fix CO2 into organic compounds (Binding with hydrogen)

The Calvin Cycle effectively takes CO2 input and turns it into CH2O.
The Light reactions take water in and turn it into oxygen output.
NADP+ from the Calvin Cycle is given to the thylakoids in the light reactions, along with ADP.
The light reactions convert it to NADPH & ATP to give into the Calvin Cycle.

Plants don't necessarily make glucose -- they'd prefer to make fructose in actuality.

Anatomy of the chloroplast:
Outer shell / membrane -> stroma
individual disk-shaped unit -> thylakoid
stack of thylakoids -> granum
There are holes in chlorophyll pigments that are to be filled with electrons
"Wiring" connecting grana: lamellae

Inside of a thylakoid are reflective surfaces (sort of like mirrors) that take light rays & bounce them around to focus them into a focal 'P.E.A' point.
P.E.A = Primary Electron Acceptor.
Plants' electron transport chain is much more efficient than animals'.

Plants have two photosystems - P680 & P700.

PSII:
A protein-pigment complex.

P680
Takes & absorbs energy for use

Chlorophyll a
Makes up P680

PSI
Another protein-pigment complex

P700

Chlorophyll b


The Chemiosomotic Gradient (Essentially the electron transport chain that occurs in the light cycle).
Sunlight enters PSII, which is used by the Z-Enzyme to split water into half an oxygen molecule & 2 hydrogen ions.	
This produces 2 electrons & kicks oxygen out as a waste product.
The electron excited out of PSII are shuttled by the intrinsic protein PQ into the B6-F Complex.

The B6-F complex is an integral protein which takes 4 hydrogen ions from the stroma & places them inside of the lumen.
Then, it shuttles the electron through PC to PSI
PSI restimulates electrons with solar energy

The electron is then shuttled by Ferrodoxin (Fd) into NADP Reductase, which reduces NADP+ by combining it with hydrogen into NADPH.
NADP reductase actually has 2 electrons to give to NADPH.

Hydrogens can only leave through ATP Synthase -- they rush out of it 4 at a time, creating the energy to synthesize ADP with Inorganic Phosphate to create ATP.
Think of the hydrogens leaving ATP synthase like a proton waterfall & the light reaction cycle is sort of like a big hydroelectricity plant.
ATP synthase in plants needs 4 hydrogens coming out of it to make 1 ATP.
6 hydrogens are produced in total.
4 are needed for ATP synthase usage, the rest are used for Carbon Dioxide conversion & NADP reductase.

Calvin Cycle:
1 Glucose per 2 cycles

There are three major parts of the Calvin Cycle:
Carbon Fixation
Reduction
Regeneration of starting substances

Carbon Fixation
Rubisco combines a CO2 with a Ribulose-1,5-biphosphate (RuBP), which then splits in half into two phospho-3-glycerates.

Reduction
Each molecule of 3-PGA has an ATP turn into an ADP by giving a phosphate to it, turning it into 1,3-biphosphoglycerates
The 1,3-biphosphoglycerates are then reduced -- they are given electrons, which displaces the 1st phosphate.
Also hydrogens are added to fix the O- on each G3P.
This creates 1 inorganic phosphate & a NAD+ per G3P.
Now they're G3P or glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate.

The resulting ADP & NAD+ are needed for the light reactions -- these cycles effectively feed into each other.

Regeneration
Some G3P are needed for regeneration, although, others are actually sent off to be packaged into different carbohydrates (Cellulose, fructose, amylose, etc).
1/6 G3P are packaged off, the rest of them are used to regenerate back into Ribulose-1,5-biphosphate (RuBP).

Results of a complete round of the Calvin Cycle:
3CO2s + 3RuBP -> G3P + 5(G3P)
9(ATP) -> 9(ADP)
9(NADPH) -> 9(NADP+)

Photorespiration:
(I.E: When the plant is suffocating).
When it's hot & dry outside, the guard cells close off stomata in the outer epidermal layer.
As a result, CO2 cannot enter and O2 can't exit.
Within the Calvin Cycle, Rubisco is going to be grabbing O2 instead of CO2 as a result of this.
In order to finish the Calvin Cycle, it needs to grab Carbon from its own structural integrity to subsist.
Once it's eaten about 25% of itself, it's basically dead.
This happens to plants that need groups of 3 Carbons.

C4 plants (Plants with 4 carbon intermediates) can actually come back from wilting much easier.
These plants have a set of cells within their bodies that hold C to use as, like a storage system - it's called a spatial separation of CO2.
These special cells are called 'mesophyll'
PEP (Phosphophenyl Pyruvate, or Pyruvate with a phosphate) is held within this part of the plant -- pyruvate has an ATP add a phosphate to it.
It uses PEP Carboxylase to turn CO2 & PEP into oxolacetate, which then is turned into malate.
Then, malate releases a CO2 & turns back into pyruvate to be put back in the cell.
This process, however, kills chlorophyll.
