A biomolecule is a molecule produced by living organisms.
The definition is rather loose.

A carbohydrate is a biomolecule that contains Carbon, Hydrogen and Oxygen.
Carbohydrates contain hydroxyl groups, therefore they always end in -OH (Contain hydroxyl)
They also contain a ratio of 2H : 1O (Most of the time*)

Carbohydrates are essential to metabolism, as they are an energy source for the body.

There are three types of carbohydrates
-Sugars
-Starches
-Fiber

There are 3 types of chemical configurations that carbohydrate may have
Monosaccharides, disaccharides & polysaccharides.

Monosaccharides, which are single units of sugar, such as glucose (C6H12O6).
Considered 'simple carbohydrates'

Disaccharides, which are two sugar molecules joined together.
For example, lactose (C12H22O11) appears normal from its chemical composition.
But, looking at its lewis or ray diagram shows two molecules joined together by an oxygen atom.
Those two molecules are glucose and galactose.
Considered 'simple carbohydrates'

Polysaccharides
Multiple sugar molecules chained together (Greater than two)
These are considered 'complex carbohydrates'
Since there are multiple sugars in a complex carbohydrate, that means it's more nutritious and has a more diverse amount of nutrition than simple carbohydrates.

Sugar
Sugars are considered to be simple carbohydrates, there are two types of sugars
Simple sugars, which are monosaccharides.
Compound sugars, which are disaccharides.

For example, glucose is a simple sugar and is simply glucose, making it a monosaccharide.
Sucrose on the other hand is a compound sugar and is made of glucose & fructose, making it a disaccharide.

Fibre
Fiber is plant matter that isn't capable of being digested by the body.
This means that it isn't absorbed and instead passes all the way through the digestive tract.

There are two kinds of fibre
Soluble
Insoluble

Soluble fibre dissolves in water and mixes with digested food which slows down the absorption of sugar into the blood, helping regulate blood sugar levels.
Insoluble fibre speeds up the passage of food in the digestive tract and helps bind it together into a more solid form.

Fibres are considered to be complex carbohydrates

Starch
Starches are polymeric carbohydrates, meaning they are very large repeated chains of the same type of molecules.
Starches in specific are made up of multiple units of glucose and it's what plants use to store glucose instead of glycogen.

There are two types of starch, both are defined by being a polymer of glucose.
Amylose & Amylopectin.
Amylose is a straight chain of alpha-glucose bound in 1-4-alpha-glycosidic bonds that forms into an amorphous shape.
Amylopectin is a branched chain that forms into a crystalline substance.

Amylose is an alpha-1-4 glycosidic bond.
Amylopectin is an alpha-1-6 glycosidic bond

Starches are considered to be complex carbohydrates (As if them being polymers didn't make that apparent enough)

(Some etymology: You may hear "polymer" referring to plastics like kevlar -- a polymer is a polymeric molecule)

Alpha vs Beta glucose
The difference between alpha & beta glucose is the configuration of hydroxyl & hydrogen on the right side of their diagram.
In alpha glucose, the hydrogen is pointed upwards while the hydroxyl is pointed down.
In beta glucose, the hydrogen is pointed downwards and the hydroxyl is pointed upwards.

Alpha glucose is considered less stable than beta glucose.

Categories of sugars based on their carbon amount/shape:
triose  = 3 carbons
tetrose = 4 carbons
pentose = 5 carbons
hexose  = 6 carbons
heptose = 7 carbons
(Named with greek syntax)

Sources:
https://medlineplus.gov/carbohydrates.html
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/161547#definition
https://www.livescience.com/51998-dietary-fiber.html
https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/articles/15416-carbohydrates
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/what-is-starch
https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/chemistry/amylose

Random notes I took during class:

Glucose

Glucose has isomers (Specifically D & L glucose)
The body can only process D-Glucose.
The two forms glucose can exist in are straight chain & ring form.
The straight chain can form into the ring via a condensation reaction.
L-glucose is a mirrored form of D-glucose. (They're both straight-chains)
L-glucose will be ignored for the sake of this course*


There are two types of ring glucose's -- alpha & beta glucose.
Beta glucose is considered more stable than alpha glucose.
Maltose is an alpha-1-4-glycosidic bond between 2 glucoses.
It's a glycosidic bond between two alpha glucose's between the 1st & 4th carbons.

Maltose is a disaccharide (2 glucoses bound together) in an alpha bond (it's 2 alpha-glucose's bound together)

When counting carbons in a carbohydrate, go towards the closest functional group.
