The cell membrane / phospholipid bilayer / fluid mosaic model.

Phospholipids:
A glycerol connected to a phosphate group, a saturated fatty acid and a cis-monounsaturated fatty acid.

The phosphate has an R-Group attached to the top.
The most common one is choline.

Phospholipids have a hydrophilic head (The phosphate group)
and a hydrophobic tail (The fatty acids)

Integral proteins
Integral proteins are functionally 'doorways' between extracellular fluid & intracellular fluid.
Integral proteins are designed in a way that only certain chemicals may enter and exit (They simply fit or don't fit through).
Chemicals enter & exit by means of diffusion.
Integral proteins have allosteric sites.
For example, glucose has insulin that works as a 'key' to the allosteric site for its integral protein.
This is considered 'passive transport'.

Sometimes 2 integral proteins form together to make an entrance for bigger things.
This is active transport because it needs energy. It needs energy because it's going against the laws of diffusion and is instead just bringing things in.

Intrinsic proteins
Carries things between integral proteins -- mostly electrons.
Sort of like shuttles between integral proteins.
Peripheral proteins

Interior:
Foundation for the cytoskeleton

Exterior:
Exterior peripheral proteins allow cells to brush up against each other and detect what they are.
White blood cells use this to tell what's a cell that belongs within the body and what is a foreigner that should be executed.

Cytoskeleton
The foundation of the cell -- allows the cell to maintain its form while expanding, bending & contracting.

Glycocalyx
Glycocalyx are carbohydrate balls
They attach to the phospholipid bilayer and will become glycolipids as a result.
Sometimes they connect to proteins and become glycoproteins.

Glycoproteins:
Glycoproteins function as signals for neighbouring cells.
Glycoproteins can act like emergency signals.
For example, it can signal that its cell needs nutrients like iron.
Another example is that if a foreign invader enters the body, a white blood cell will tag it with a glycoprotein.
If another white blood cell detects this, it will attack the invader for a bit, then move on.
Then, a last white blood cell will detect this and finish the job.
