Fats & lipids are important macronutrients which contribute to homeostasis in the body of animals.
Lipids are fatty, waxy or oily compounds that are covalent (I.E: Will not dissolve in polar covalent solvents, such as water)

Base uses:
Long term energy storage (Adipose)
Insulation (adipose)
Shock absorbant (adipose)
Hormones (Steroids)
Cell membrane (Phospholipid bilayer)

Lipids include:
Fats & oils
Phospholipids
Waxes
Steroids

Fats & Oils

Fats and oils are esters made up of glycerol and 3 fatty acids.
Fats are solid at room temperature, while oils are liquid.

A fat molecule contains of two main components, glycerol and fatty acids.
Glycerol is an alcohol with 3 carbons that each have a hydroxyl group attached.
Fatty acids have a long chain of hydrocarbons with a carboxyl group attached.
Hence the name 'fatty acid'
The number of carbons in the fatty acid may range from 4 all the way to 36.
The most common ones have 12-18 carbons.
In a fat molecule, the fatty acids attach to each of the glycerol's carbons with an ester bond through an oxygen atom (In dehydration synthesis).
An ester bond is a bond created by a dehydration reaction between a hydroxyl & carboxyl*

A tri-ester linked glycerol is also known as triglyceride, which is a basic 'fat'.
A fat is a glyceride connected to fatty acids.

If your body consumes too many fatty acids, then it'll just sort of create fats and eject them as fast as possible to get rid of the excess.

Fatty acids

Fatty acids are long chains of carbons connected to hydrogen, with one end having 3 hydrogens and another end having a carboxyl group (−C(=O)−OH)
Fatty acids are considered saturated if there are no double bonds in them.
If there's a double bond, it's considered an unsaturated fatty acid.
If there's one double bond, it's a monounsaturated fat.
If there are multiple, it's a polyunsaturated fat.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids tend to be cis because they're basically trying to bend over and over again to form a big ring.
Unsaturated fats are oils.
Both fats & fatty acids are described as saturated/unsaturated *fats*.
A fat molecule is considered unsaturated if a fatty acid connected to it is unsaturated.

Difference between cis & trans fats:
Both cis & trans fats are unsaturated fats.
In a cis fat, hydrogen atoms are attached with a double bond on one end of the carbon chain, resulting in a bent shape.
In a trans fat, hydrogen atoms are attached on opposite sides of the carbon chain, making it straight.

Long straight saturated fatty acids with single bonds generally pack tightly and are solid at room temperature.
Animal fats with stearic acid and palmitic acid (Fatty acids found in meat) and the fat with butyric acid (Found in butter) are examples of saturated fats.
Mammals store fat in specialized cells (Adipocytes), where fat globules occupy most of the cell's volume.
Plants store fat or oil in their seeds and said seeds use them as a source of energy during development.
Unsaturated fats or oils are usually found in plants and contain cis unsaturated fatty acids.

Cis & trans indicate the configuration of the molecule around the double bond.
Trans fats tend to appear in hydrogenated products, or otherwise processed food products made by contemporary means -- they don't tend to occur naturally.

C18H36O2 is stearic acid, which can be found in red flesh -- it's marbling or 'grizzle'.
Having too much of it will cause high cholesterol, which can lead to heart disease.

Stearic acid is an saturated fatty acid with 18 carbons
Oleic acid (Olive oil) is a cis monounsaturated fatty acid with 18 carbons and a double bond at the 9th carbon.

Phospholipids
Phospholipids are major components of the plasma membrane in a cell.
Their structure is comprised of 3 key components:
1: A glycerol body or 'backbone'.
2: Two fatty acid 'tails' which act as a hydrophobic end of the molecule.
3: A phosphate group 'head' which acts as a hydrophilic end of the molecule.
Having a hydrophobic & hydrophilic part makes phospholipids 'amphipathic molecules'.
In the cell membrane, the hydrophilic phosphate heads face outwards and the hydrophobic tails face inwards -- this helps the cell retain its form in fluid and regulate the intake of particles.

Steroids
Steroids have a fused ring structure.
Although they do not resemble other lipids, they're grouped in because they're hydrophobic and insoluble.
All steroids have 4 linked carbon rings and some of them (E.G: Cholesterol) have a short tail.
Many steroids have the hydroxyl functional group, which puts them in the alcohol classification, or 'sterol'
Cholesterol is the most common steroid.
The liver synthesizes with cholesterol and it's the precursor to many other steroids, such as testosterone and estradiol.
It is also the precursor to vitamin d cholesterol & bile salts, which help emulsify fats to be absorbed by cells.
Cholesterol are vital components in the human body and are even components of the phospholipid layer of the plasma membrane.

Cholesterol will add itself to the phospholipid bilayer in cell membranes.
If you have too much cholesterol, it can widen the cell membranes so much that it chokes bloodvessels.

Simple recognition of steroids:
Steroids all have 3 hexagons & one pentagon in their structure.

Estrogen has a benzene connected to a hydroxyl group on the bottom left.
Testosterone has a cyclo pent-2-ene doubly bound to an oxygen on the bottom left.
Cholesterol has 'tail' on the top right and a hydroxyl group on the bottom left.

https://openstax.org/books/biology-2e/pages/3-3-lipids
