Nucleus

The nucleus is a structure found in every eukaryotic cell that houses chromatin.
It has a double layered nuclear membrane and is connected to the smooth & rough endoplasmic reticulums.
This allows for an exchange of molecules to/from the nucleus to the endoplasmic reticulum.
The nucleus controls and regulates the activity of the cell because it has chromatin, which more or less acts as instructions for the cell interpreted by the nucleus.
An analogy to this would be if a cell is a computer, chromatin is compiled machine code & the nucleus is the CPU.
The registers in this analogy would be the nucleoli, which are small bodies in the nucleus suspended in nucleoplasm.

In specific, the nucleus controls metabolism & growth of the cell -- whether or not it should be 

The primary function of the nucleus is to take chromatin, read the genetic information from it and transcribe it into a messenger RiboNucleic Acid (mRNA) molecule.
mRNA molecules have information for a protein and are transported into the cytoplasm of the cell where ribosomes will use them for protein synthesis to form the protein they account for.

https://www.britannica.com/science/nucleus-biology

Nucleolus
The nucleolus is a structure within the nucleus that's directly involved in the synthesis of rRNA (ribosomal RNA)
And the formation of ribosomes.
The nucleoli are suspended in nucleoplasm.
A cell can contain multiple nucleoli (Depending on the organism & specific cell type)
The nucleolus contains the genes that encode rRNA.
In the cytoplasm, ribosomal proteins are formed, which are then transported into the nucleolus and synthesized with 1 large & 1 small rRNA molecule, creating the large & small subunits of the ribosome.
Then, they're returned to the cytoplasm where they're assembled into functional ribosomes.

An analogy that I find works for the formation of ribosomes is an Assembly language file being linked by a linker, then compiled with a compiler into a binary that can be run.
I find that the linkage of an ASM file is analogous to a ribosomal protein being transported to the nucleolus to be synthesized with large & small rRNA molecules and the compilation of the linked ASM file with a compiler like GCC is analogous to the synthesized rRNA being further synthesized into a ribosome in the cytoplasm.

https://www.britannica.com/science/nucleolus

Ribosome

Ribosomes are structures within the cell that perform protein synthesis.
Ribosomal molecules of mRNA determine the order of transfer RNA (tRNA) that are bound to nucleotide triplets.
The order of the tRNA dictates the amino acid sequence of a protein, while the rRNA catalyzes the reaction and the newly formed protein goes to another part of the cell for further use
mRNA is sent from the nucleus to the ribosome.
tRNA is already in the ribosome.

Endoplasmic Reticulum

The endoplasmic reticulum is a membrane system that connects to the nucleus.
It forms a series os flattened sacs and packages & transports different types of biomolecules.
It is also only present in eukaryotic cells, as it is a membrane bound organelle.

Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum

The SER is involved in the synthesis of lipids, cholesterol and phospholipids, which are needed to maintain the cell membrane.
The SER also is involved in the synthesis of steroid hormones from cholesterol.
SER in liver cells are also specialized in the detoxification of drugs and chemicals harmful to the body.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum is a specialized version of the SER that stores & regulates the amount of calcium in skeletal muscle cells.

Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum

The RER is named so because it is studded with ribosomes, giving it a 'rough' appearance.
The ribosomes on the RER synthesize proteins that direct themselves to the ER for processing.
Proteins synthesized by the RER have specific destinations that they're meant to reach.
Some proteins synthesized in the RER are destined for the ER, while others are destined to reach the golgi aparatus.

Proteins that are meant to be transported to the golgi aparatus are first transferred from ribosomes on the RER into the RER lumen, which is where protein folding, modification and assembly happens.

Golgi Aparatus

The golgi aparatus is a membrane-bound organelle that is made up of a series of flattened & stacked pouches called cisternae.
The golgi aparatus is responsible for transporting, modifying & packaging proteins & lipids into vesicles which deliver them to target destinations.
Many types of cells contain one or several golgi aparatus', but plant cells may contain hundreds.

Collections of cisternae are classified as cis, medial & trans.
The cis & trans components make up the Cis Golgi Network & Trans Golgi Network respectively
The top pouch, where substances enter is called the 'cis face'
The bottom pouch, where they leave from is called the 'trans face'

The vesicles that leave the RER are transported to the cis face of the golgi aparatus.
They enter the lumen, which are tubes in the golgi aparatus.
The proteins that are not destined for the endoplasmic reticulum or golgi aparatus are moved through the cisternaeuntil they reach the trans face, before entering the Trans-Golgi-Network.
This is where they're sorted into their respective vesicles and shipped off to their intended destinations.

There are three types of vesicles in the Trans-Golgi-Network:
Exocytotic vesicles - literally translating to outside-of-cell vesicles
These vesicles contain proteins destined for outside of the cell.
The process of them moving towards the outer edges of the plasma membrane & releasing their contents is called constitutive secretion.

Secretory vesicles:
The proteins in secretory vesicles are also destined for extracellular release.
But, the difference between secretory & exocytotic vesicles is that the proteins transported by secretory vesicles are stored in the cell until a signal is given to release it.
An example of this in action is a neurotransmitter in a neuron cell.

Lysosomal vesicles:
Lysosomal vesicles contain proteins & ribosomes destined for the lysosome.

Proteins secreted by the golgi aparatus are sent to either the cell membrane or lysosomes

Lysosome

Mitochondria

Vesicle

Vacuole

Cytoskeleton

Plasma Membrane

Cell Wall

Chloroplast
