Proteins are the most ubiquotous biomolecules in organisms and are the most versatile in function.
Proteins can be structural, regulatory, contractile or protective and can serve in transport, storage or membranes.
Proteins may range in structure and function, but they are all amino acid polymers in a linear sequence.

Types of proteins & their functions:

Enzymes are produced by all living cells and catalyze biochemical reactions.
They're usually complex or conjugated proteins.
Enzymes are specific to their reactants and substrates (A substrate is something that binds to the catalyst) for their purpose.
Enzymes that break down their substrates are 'catabolic', while those that synthesize into more complex molecules are 'anabolic' enzymes.
Enzymes which speed up or slow down their reactions are 'catalytic'.

Table:
Type	   |      Example		|  Function
Enzyme     |	  Amylase		|  Catabolyzes starch into monomeric units for digestion
Transport  |      Hemoglobin	        |  Binds to carbon dioxide, oxygen or lymph to carry it throughout the body
Structural |	  Actin & Kerotin	|  Constructs different structures, such as the cytoskeleton
Hormones   |	  Insulin		|  Causes the body to do certain things (E.G: Insulin triggering the liver to release glucose)
Defence    |	  Immunoglobins		|  Protects the body from foreign pathogens
Contractile|	  Actin			|  Effects muscle contraction
Storage    |	  Albumin		|  Stores nutrients for embryotic development


Amino acids

Amine functional group -> NH2
Amino acids consist of an amine functional group, hydrogen, an acid and an R-group which can be anything.
On their own, amino acids mostly just synthesize things.
In specific, their primary purpose is to synthesize proteins.
Two amino acids will link together in a dehydration synthesis, forming a 'peptide linkage'.
Everything except for the R-groups is considered to be the 'backbone' of the protein.

The body is incapable of directly storing amino acids, so they're either synthesized or broken down into lipids or carbohydrates for other uses.

Glycine:
In an amino acid, if the R group is replaced with a Hydrogen, then it's considered glycene.

Alanine:
If the R group in an amino acid is a methyl group, then it's alanine.

Cysteine
If the R group in an amino acid is CH2 connected to a SH, it's a cysteine.

Secondary structure:
Interactions with the polypeptide backbone

Tertiary structure:


Amino acids that are essential to human development:
isoleucine, leucine, and cysteine.

Isoleucine is an essential nutrient and regulates glucose metabolism.
It's an essential component of proteins and is important for protein synthesis in cells.

Leucine
Leucine may increase the synthesis of muscle proteins.
However, this is a contested hypothesis so make of that what you will.

L-Leucine & D-Leucine have been shown to protect against epilepsy and seizures in general.
Leucine also however increases insulin resistence and can cause adiposity (Being fat), meaning it should be restricted in consumption.
Imposing leucine intake restrictions has been shown to reverse obesity.

Cysteine

Cystine's sulfhydrl group (SH) is nucleophilic and easily oxidized -- as a result it's very reactive and has numerous biological functions.
The sulfhydrl group has an affinity for bonding to heavy metals, therefore proteins containing cysteine will bind tightly to metals.

Enzymes
Enzymes are proteins that catalyze reactions -- each enzyme has a specific molecule it's meant to break down.
E.G: sucrase breaks sucrose down.
They're shaped in a way that the substance and enzyme fit and connect together almost like puzzle pieces.
Since enzymes simply catalyze reactions, they aren't used up.

Some molecules partially fit in with enzymes and partially connect with them.
These are called 'competitive inhibitors' because they can be replaced by other molecules.

Some substances partially fit but never leave the enzyme alone -- meaning it's completely halted the enzyme from functioning.
This is called a non-competitive inhibitor.
Most of the time these are poisons because they inhibit enzymes that carry out important reactions and result in major bodily functions failing or (in the case of cyanide) total necrosis.

Some enzymes have an allosteric site, which is functionally the same as an on/off switch.
If the enzyme's product is not required, then it will place the resulting product in the allosteric site, shift form to an unusable state and wait for it to be needed.

Sometimes enzymes start in their unusable form and are activated later.
Lactase (In older people) mostly remains deactivated until allolactose turns it on, so that it can process lactose.
Allolactose is what lactase produces, meaning that most of the lactase enzymes remain deactivated and wait for the little amount that is activated to create allolactose and therefore activate them.

There can be competitive inhibitors in the allosteric site which will disable the enzymes -- however, they can be cleared up (Sometimes with medicine).
Non-competitive inhibitors get in the allosteric site to render the enzyme useless and will not be cleared out.
