Central Dogma of Genetics

The biggest contributing factor of the DNA is to make proteins (Carry out protein synthesis with the nucleolus)
Doesn't say to make carbohydrates or fat -- just says to make proteins, as they're the most important part of bodily function.

The point is to get the chromatin to ribosomes and get them to enter the rough endoplasmic reticulum, have the product sent to the golgi and have a protein functional.
How does DNA use itself like this without needing to be replicated at all times?
the answer is transcription.

Transcription
Transcription is a system that tells the cell to take the correct part(s) of the DNA strands and use its instructions for any given function.
RNA Polymerase is what reads a single strand in a chromosome.
Promoters are what help the RNA Polymerase figure out where to start reading from.

The TATA Box:
A complex of thymines & adenosines connected together on each strand on the chromosome.
Since their bond is the weakest among nitrogenous bases, RNA Polymerase slips in easily

Template:
The template is the section of chromatin that is to be replicated.

RNA Polymerase reads the template and creates an equivalent mRNA strand.
(Remember: In RNA, Uracil is used instead of Thymine)
Towards the end, there's a ton of Cs in a row, thus tightening the chromatin.
The resulting guanines on the mRNA strand create a 'twist' which eventually breaks the RNA strand off.

When a ribosome collects an mRNA strand, it interprets the nitrogenous base sequences and collects appropriate amino acids.
Much like a CPU collecting data from its registers and doing something with the values.

Pre-mRNA:
What's created during transcription during the process of mRNA synthesis.
Endonucleases eat pre-mRNA that's incorrectly made and forces it to be recycled.
In order for mRNA to leave the nucleus, it has a 5-prime cap that's made of 7 guanines, which are fed to the endonucleases.
It also has a poly-A tail which is made of a bunch of Adenosines, which are very similar.

Splicesome:
Splicesome will take excess segments that are unecessary to the mRNA's function.
There are two types of segments within an mRNA strand:
Introns and extrons.
Introns are meant to stay within the nucleus, so splicesom will cut them off.


The the rapist made me smiley
       ^                    ^
Take away the introns:
The therapist made me smile
