Translation

A Codon is a 3-nitrogenous base group.
Think of it like a 3 bit byte.

A ribosome is a 3 part mechanism that is sort of like a CPU register.
It has a big end and a small end that clamp on to mRNA strands.

There are 3 sites:
APE (Reversed on the bottom half)
A accepts
P is Peptide
E is for exit

For all we know, there is no E and we don't know which end of the ribosome is which lmao

The ribosome waits until it finds Adenine, Uracil and Guanine (AUG) in a row before starting anything related to copying.
This is sort of like if you told a computer program to read a file and it wouldn't understand it to be the start of the file until it reads like 0xA or something to signify the start of a file.
Alternatively, it's like a gun nerd who only cares about guns past 1978 (It's waiting for AUG to come out before it starts caring)

The 3 nitrogenous base codes are interpteted by the ribosome the same way a CPU interprets kernel codes in NASM.
E.G: CUC -> Leucine
There are even STOP escape codes: UAA & UAG are STOP.

Substitution:
When one nitrogenous base in a group (One bit in a byte) is changed.
When the resulting 'byte' is the same, it's a silent mutation.
This results in a missence mutation when the resulting 'byte' is different.

Addition:
When an insertion in the array happens.
This leads to a frame shift.

When the stop is eradicated by the insertion:
Nonsence mutation - It does not build (Something is seriously messed up, but the ribosome will probably refuse to build it.)

Sudden stop due to an insertion:
Also a Nonsence mutation.
Sometimes the ribosome doesn't build, other times they do, creating benign tumours.
These aren't cancerous but the body is putting protein where it isn't supposed to be.

Additions occur because somtimes tRNA is extra-energized and just kind of accidentally sneaks in an extra bit.

Sometimes tRNA is super slow and a nitrogenous base isn't received.
This is called a deletion.
Deletion:
It's just substitution with a '\0'
Also causes a frame shift.
Causes a missence if the ribosome makes it, and a nonsence if it doesn't.

tRNA 
Translation RNA; Looks like a cross with an eggplant attached to the right corner.
All tRNA's are the exact same but with 3 letters different and we don't really know where those 3 letters are.
tRNA has an 'anti-codon' that will grab a codon and bring it to the correct ribosome.

If the anti-codon/codon is 2 letters, it drops off the mRNA at the P site and leaves.
If it's 3 letters, it sticks with the mRNA all the way to the E site.
