Nerve cell:
Frontal part -- the dentrite end.
Contains dentrites, which are the input sections.
The nucleus is also usually in the dentrite end.

Axon hillock:
connection point of the axon & dendrite end.

Axon:
The 'wire' leading to the vesicle output section of the neuron.

Myelin Sheath:
The 'insulation' of the neuron;
Think of it like the rubber coating of a wire, the wire being the axon.
As it disappears, it's similar to a wire being frayed -- the signal can be dispersed as a result of it.
This leads to alzheimers and parkinsons
When the nerve is damaged, a protein sheath is wrapped over the sheath, which can eventually make it too heavy and cause it to snap.

Node of Ranvier:
The nodes of ronvier are the mechanisms that move sodium from one end of the neuron to the other.
Sodium ions are basically the pusher of ions and are the most important for synapses.
They are highly enriched in voltage-gated sodium and potassium channels.
Voltage gated channels are channels in nerves that only open when enough voltage is passed through them, similar to how a transistor works in a circuit.


Calcium channel:
Calcium is what pushes the ions out of the vesicles.
Therefore, the calcium channel is important for the nerve to 'know' when the ions have reached the output end.

Vesicle output section:
This is where ions are shot out of the cell.

Neuron types:

Sensory neuron:
Photorecptors    - Eyes
Chemoreceptors   - Nose
Thermoreceptors  - Fingers
Mechanoreceptors - Ears
Nocioreceptors   - Lips

Interneuron
The spinal cord's neural system

Motor neuron
Directly informs muscles to contract or relax

Neuron designs:
Unipolar  -> CNS          -> Dendrite & axon ends aren't set in stone and can change, meaning input/output can change
Bipolar   -> Eyes         -> Axon & dendrite ends are set in stone and therefore there's a clear input/output end
Pyramidal -> Lizard brain -> Two inputs, one output
Parkinge  -> Eyes         -> One input, multiple outputs

Within a nerve's axon is a charge of -70 miliVolts.
What's needed to create an electrical input is positive ions coming in to act as as a positive proton flow.
Neurons are lined with integral proteins that have polar molecules. The negative ends are used to create the negative charge.
Potassium & sodium ions are actively transported around the neuron, to guide other ions through it.
3 Sodiums are pumped out for every 2 potassium's are taken in, which helps keep positive ions down, keeping the ion charge negative.

Voltage gated neurons: (Sodium/potassium pumps)
Once a ~-50mV input is detected by the dentrite of a neuron, the all or nothing principal takes effect and starts the neuron's action.
Sodium rushes in and applies a 40mV charge to a single segment, while the rest of the environment is still -70.
Sodium integral proteins are closed and the sodium pushes out remaining potassium..
The first part is -90mV and the next part is 40mV, this causes sodium to rush into the next -70, turning it into +40, causing the one behind it to become -90.
This continues happening until the 40mV reaches the axon, where it opens integral proteins for calcium to enter.
Calcium finds the appropriate vesicle and pushes it to the end of the axon (At the pre-synaptic membrane), releasing a neuro-transmitter to go to the nerve it's connected to and recursively to a ligand gated channel.

Acetylcholine is the most common endogenous ligand, and it basically is the common packet that can tell a neuron to do anything (E.G: "Walk", "snap", "fall")
Acetylcholine has acetyllcholine esterase, which stops repeated instructions.
Some substances just kind of diffuse around different neurons until they're broken down completely.
Other substances will be recycled then stored after usage (E.G: Serotonin).
