Male reproductive system:
Hypothalamus releases Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone.
This causes the Anterior Pituitary to release FSH & LH.
LH goes to interstitial cells, which causes testosterone production -- this causes many changes in the body, including functional sperm.
Testosterone goes to sertoli cells, which causes functional sperm production.

Potential causes of infertility:
-Low testosterone, causing non-functionality
-Low volume of sperm, which means there's just a low chance of sperm entering the egg


Female reproductive system:
Women are born with eggs, but it isn't until FSH matures eggs to cause them to be functional.

Hypothalamus releases Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone
This goes to the Anterior Pituitary to release LH.
LH goes to the Corpus Luteum and Growing Follicle
The Growing Follicle combines with FSH from the Anterior Pituitary to produce estrogen, which causes mature & functional eggs.

The Corpus Luteum releases Progesterone when exposed to LH.

Corpus Luteum is the 'husk' that eggs come out of.
Then, it folds in on itself and shrivels up.
This Corpus Luteum controls TH and placenta development -- it's sort of the 'brains' of the uterus.
The period is caused by the egg not being fertilized -- this causes everything to crash, so the unfertilized egg is excreted and so is the corpus luteum.

Menstrual Cycle:
Flow (1-5 days):
The body chooses an egg to mature

Ovulation (14 days):
The egg bursts out of the Corpus Luteum

Luteal (15-28 or 29-34 days):
If the body is not pregnant at this point, estrogen, LH, FSH and progresterone are all kicked out and lower drastically in size.

If the egg is actually fertilized, then gnRH will inform the pituitary gland to release more LH and FSH.
Placenta produces more estrogen and progresterone.
Relaxin is released, which allows skin to stretch further and relaxes ligaments for labour (Including the ones that compose the hip bones).
The intestines absorb more water and nutrients, for the child.
Prolactin is released, which causes milk ducts to increase in size.
Oxytocin is released and will continue to be released more and more.
