Kidneys:
- Both combined hold 25% of the body's blood of blood at any given time.
- Process 200 litres of blood in a given day, or a whole bathtub.
- They lose effectiveness as the body ages.
- They're about 150 grams, or the size of a fist or something
- Sometimes when someone gets smacked too hard, the blood from the kidneys gets squeezed into the urinary system.

Approximately 120 mL is cleaned every minute

Bladder has a capacity of 599 mL, the body tells itself to exude it at 200 mL.
Adrenaline will take this sensation away.
When the body reaches 400 mL, the body reaches a strong urge, but adrenaline will still work.

At 600 mL, the body just forces itself.

Ureter:
A tube that connects the kidneys to the bladder -- this is where the waste material filtered out by the kidneys is put.
The urinary sphincter is what connects the bladder to the kidneys.
Then, the urinary sphincter which connects the urethra to the bladder, which connects to the outside for waste excretion.
Urinary sphincter works for both openings.

Women are more suseptible to UTI's which -- because the urethra is smaller -- are more potent because it can reach the bladder faster..
Men are less suseptible to UTI's and they're less potent, because their urethra are longer.

The renal arteries feed into the kidneys, which branch off into arterioles.
Within kidneys are two regions:
-The renal cortex (Outer layer)
-The renal medulla (Iner layer)
	- Contains units called 'renal pyramids' which funnel urin into the renal pelvis
The nephron:
The nephron spans from the renal cortex & medulla and is the functional unit of the kidney.
The nephron filters blood -- it does this by taking the substrate and puts it in urine to produce urine -- it also reabsorbs nutrients and excess water.

Every nephron has its own blood supply, wrapped in capillaries.
The afferent arteriole is the major artery that leads to & from the neprhon.
There is the afferent arteriole on top and the efferent arteriole, leading out on the bottom.
Between the two is the glomerulus, which bunches up in the 'mouth' region of the nephron.
It's bunched up to increase pressure, which pushes filtrate through the nephron.
The filtrate is composed of:
	Water,
	Salts,
	Amino acids
	Glucose COULD be there (If the person is diabetic),
	Plasma (if blood is sqeueezed in there),

What should NOT be there are:
	Red blood cells (Cancer, physical trauma causing squeezing, UTI, kidney stone),
	White blood cells (Causes clouding, due to an infection)
	Platelets (Bone fragments, which cause scabbing and are there due to wounding in the kidneys)

The nephron is able to store as much as 119 mL of water if it has to.
In the first part of the nephron -- the Bowman's Capsule -- 80% of the water going in is returned.

Proximal Convoluted Tubule (PCT):
It's embedded with integral proteins that soak up sodium ions, which causes chlorine ions to follow them.
Because of the high salt concentration outside of the nephron and comparatively high water concentration inside, the water also flows out of the nephron, returning to the body.
The PCT has the highest concentration of mitochondria & integral proteins out of any structure in the body.

The Descending Loop:
A loop of passive transport of salt and water

Ascending Loop:
If there's still more salt in here than outside, will passively remove some.
Contains a threshold of salt, and will actively remove it via integral proteins if there's still too high of salt.
If there's still too much salt, kidney stones form.

Small kidney stones go to the collecting duck, which is the very end of the nephron and connects to the ureter.

The Distal Convoluted Tubule (DCT)
This is the site that hormones and chemicals are sent to.
If the body is dehydrated, then hormones will be sent to the DCT so that more water is absorbed into the body (up to 99%) .
dehydration & low blood pressure trigger signals to the DCT.
